Add replace-node-first-boot option (#12316)
scylladb/scylladb: docs/operating-scylla/procedures/cluster-management/replace-dead-node.rst

    - **rpc_address** - Address for client connection (Thrift, CQL)

#. Add the ``replace_node_first_boot`` parameter to the ``scylla.yaml`` config file on the new node. This line can be added to any place in the config file. After a successful node replacement, there is no need to remove it from the ``scylla.yaml`` file. (Note: The obsolete parameters "replace_address" and "replace_address_first_boot" are not supported and should not be used). The value of the ``replace_node_first_boot`` parameter should be the Host ID of the node to be replaced.

    For example (using the address of the failed node from above):

>     ``replace_node_first_boot: 87a2b646-c968-4108-a38b-f8468b8b7360``

Reviewer: @bhalevy 
- I understand that Host ID should be used, but I'm not sure why this one is. The Host ID of the dead node in the example (address 192.168.1.203) is 675ed9f4-6564-6dbd-can8-43fddce952gy.
-I think that "address" on line 73 should be replaced with "Host ID".

Author: > @bhalevy
> 
> * I understand that Host ID should be used, but I'm not sure why this one is. The Host ID of the dead node in the example (address 192.168.1.203) is 675ed9f4-6564-6dbd-can8-43fddce952gy.

good point

> * I think that "address" on line 73 should be replaced with "Host ID".

Right, thanks

      sudo sed -e '/auto_bootstrap:.*/s/False/True/g' -i /etc/scylla/scylla.yaml

> #. Run the following command to replace the Host ID of the node that you are restarting:

Reviewer 2: The previous statement instructed the reader to take the command below, modify the command by replacing the IP provided here with the IP of the node that they want to restart, and then run the command.

This statement tells the reader that the command replaces the Host ID of the node that the reader is restarting... replaces it with what? This doesn't make much sense. And running the command verbatim is obviously an error - we don't want the reader to run the following command, actually (we want them to run a modified command).

I think we should keep the format of the statement as it was and write something like:
"Run the following command, replacing 87a2b646-c968-4108-a38b-f8468b8b7360 with the Host ID of the node that you are restarting"

Author: yeah, that makes sense.

Author: I'm actually not happy with the phrase you suggested since the action is not about replacing the Host ID, it's about replacing the node previously known by that Host ID.

How about:
```
#. Run the following command to replace the node known by the previous Host ID of the node you are restarting, 87a2b646-c968-4108-a38b-f8468b8b7360, by the restarted instance, that will be assigned a new, random, Host ID:
```

Reviewer 2: > action is not about replacing the Host ID

The command itself is not about replacing the Host ID, but the reader of the documentation must first replace the Host ID in the command with the Host ID of their node. That's what the "replacing 87a2b646-c968-4108-a38b-f8468b8b7360 with..." is about.

So the statement is a succint wait of saying:
1. In the command below, replace "87a2b646-c968-4108-a38b-f8468b8b7360" with the Host ID of the node that you are restarting
2. Then execute the command below.

> #. Run the following command to replace the node known by the previous Host ID of the node you are restarting, 87a2b646-c968-4108-a38b-f8468b8b7360, by the restarted instance, that will be assigned a new, random, Host ID:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Run the following command to replace the dead node (previously known by the Host ID of the node you are restarting) with the restarted node:
```

Reviewer: I've split and rephrased the sentence because it was hard to process. Also, I think the Host ID is just an example, so we should remove it from the instructions.

Author: The thing is that it is not officially dead.
The scenario here is that this node lost its ephemeral storage, so referring to the old incarnation as "dead' could be misleading.
Maybe you can think of a clearer way to describe it.

Reviewer: I see your point. How about:

Run the following command to replace the instance whose ephemeral volumes were erased (previously known by the Host ID of the node you are restarting) with the restarted instance. The restarted node will be assigned a new random Host ID.

Reviewer 2: TBH I don't see a point in explaining what the command does here. The previous version did not explain it either.

And my head hurts when I read these complex sentences.

How about:

"In the following command, replace `87a2b646-c968-4108-a38b-f8468b8b7360` with the Host ID of the node that you are restarting. Then run the command:"

Optionally we can explain what the command is needed for, but not in this paragraph. Explain it in a separate paragraph before this one or after the code block.

Author: Ah, now I understand what you initially meant.

As far as I can tell, in the documented instructions we currently provided, we don't instruct the readers what they should do to actually execute our instructions, but rather we provide examples and explain what the examples do, taking it for granted that admins will replace the "arguments" used in the example commands with the right ones in their environment.

You instructions were understood by me as explaining to the admin that the command is used to replace the node's Host ID with some other Host ID, which doesn't make sense.

The alternative, maybe as a followup cleanup, is to replace the actual bogus arguments like particular ip addresses or (sometimes invalid, sometimes valid) host UUIDs with abstract arguments like `<node-X-ip-address>` and `<node-X-host-id>`

Author: that way it's clear that these are placeholders for actual arguments

Reviewer: I'd suggest leaving the section as is to avoid blocking this PR and refactor it later, but it's up to you. My thoughts on refactoring:

- Complex sentences are a pain, so I split the instructions in that step to make it read better. However, I wouldn't give up explaining to the user WHY they need to run a given command. It doesn't have to be explained in that very step - there could be a separate paragraph preceding the instructions, but we shouldn't leave the users in the dark about what a given command does.
- About the examples: I don't think the current example is confusing, but there's a better way. When I add an example, I tend to add a command with a placeholder followed by an example. For example:

Take a snapshot, including every keyspace you want to backup:

`nodetool snapshot <KEYSPACE_NAME>`

For example: 
	
`nodetool snapshot mykeyspace`

Author: that's a good approach

> #. Run the following command to replace the instance whose ephemeral volumes were erased (previously known by the Host ID of the node you are restarting) with the restarted instance. The restarted node will be assigned a new random Host ID.

Reviewer 3: Same comment re instance vs host vs node.

Author: Here instance refers to a cloud VM that lost its ephemeral storage, so I think it does make sense in this context, but it can probably be said more clearly.  How about:

```
To restore the data lost by the restarted instance, locate the Host ID of the respective Scylla node and use the following option when restarting the node to initiate its replacement. The restarted node will be assigned a new random Host ID.
```

Reviewer 3: Maybe I am mistaken, but I think we're not restoring any data when replacing? We're restoring the replication factor, but the data is streamed from other nodes, it's not taken from some volume locally? Now I don't get how can you *restart* a node yet change its startup options, given its instance (VM) was lost? Rather, we're starting a fresh new node with intention to replace the node lost along with the permanently lost VM. Am I getting this right?

Author: It comes down to the terminology, that I don't think our documentation is crispy clear about.
This scenario calls for a cloud instance that loses the data volume.  When restarted, scylla will pick a new random host_id and the replace option (to scylla, not to the instance) tells it to replace the dead node that was lost, that happened to be served on the same instance, but it's almost irrelevant (except maybe for reusing the same ip address).
The node's content is rebuilt from the remaining replicas.

Reviewer 3: In that case I think it would be more clear to say that we're replacing the node and stream its data set from the remaining replicas. The only thing that stays the same is IP address and tokens.

Author: Rephrased in [07d8629](https://github.com/scylladb/scylladb/commit/07d8629e2bd922483cb2000d26f5bf285def0b9a)
